# Group Project Blog

Because we didn’t have the opportunity to utilize spec harness for these two methods, it proved to be somewhat of a challenge to figure out what a correct return value would be based on tests that we have written for them. Eventually we realized we could discover the answer manually and put elbow grease into discovering that our return values were correct.

In the first method “most sold item for merchant”,  what we are trying to count is which item has sold the most quantity. In order to do that we first need to find out which item is associated with which merchant. This is done by looking in the invoice items for merchant method where we iterate through the items array and use the find all by merchant id method to find the specific merchant id, and then we iterate through the items for merchant array and find all the invoice items associated with a specific merchant’s items ids. We then use the invoice item by quantity method to count the number of sales per item. Then we sort the invoice items by the quantity sold and whatever is in the zeroth location is the number one selling item by quantity. We then check through a map enumerable whether any item in the invoice array ties in quantity with the best selling item: if it does we return a full array of tied items, if not -- it would return us just one item in an array.

We followed a very similar process for “best item for merchant”. We reused the invoice items for merchant method in order to find the items associated with a specific merchant. Then we iterate through the invoice items for merchant array and count up the price multiplied by the quantity (i.e. revenue) associated with each item. Then in the best item for merchant method itself we sort the hash we created in invoice items by the actual revenue. Then we find the specific item with the highest revenue in the zeroth array  (which is an array of the id and revenue) and zeroth location and use that id to look up the item object that we return.

The real world applications of these methods are very apparent. A merchant could find these methods extremely useful when looking for items that are really popular with customers and maybe raise price on the high quantity items as measured by the most sold items for merchant method. Then if the quantity demanded goes down by less than the raised price, their revenue would increase.

A merchant could use the best item for merchant method to figure out which item makes them the most money currently and buy advertising for that item. A method like this could maximize the profit for the company, therefore giving them opportunities to pay their developers more!
