## Black Thursday

Find the [project spec here](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/black_thursday/).


## Blog post for functions #best_item_for_merchant(merchant_id) and #best_item_for_merchant(merchant_id)
Beginning with #best_item_for_merchant(merchant_id), the way the function is executed is by taking in the argument of merchant_id and then utilizing a container array to house all of the invoices for the given merchant. Once you have the array of invoices from the given merchant, we utilized an ".each" variable to iterate through while placing all invoices into a new holder container called item_holder. From there we iterated through the item_holder array with another .each to pull out the individual items and their information such as quantity ordered. Once entering the ".each" iterator of item_holder, we have an if block to help the program designate which path to take. The conditions checked are to see if the placeholder array was empty or not, and if so then to automatically set the first price as the best price. If the array is not empty, then the second check in the if block is to see if the quantity values are equal and to then push the new equal quantity item to the most_sold array. Finally, if neither of those conditions are met then there's a check against the quantity of the previous high score kept in most_sold, if the new quantity is larger than it replaces the previous most_sold. Once all the conditions have been checked the method ultimately returns the most_sold variable.

As for the #best_item_for_merchant(merchant_id) method, we begin similarly to above with setting up a container array of all the invoices belonging to the designated merchant being searched. From there we initiated two container variables - item_most_profitable, and item_holder to help with organizing the item counts and values. The next thing in the function is utilizing ".each" on the invoice_holder container array to pull out the individual items and their price and quantity properties to determine which is the most profitable item. Once setting the items within the item_holder array, we did a second “.each” on the item_holder array to then access the individual “.id” and “.name” to begin comparing quantities and prices. The goal was to then get a working if/elsif block to check which items are more profitable compared to previous array iterations. We were unable to complete this method but I was aiming to attempt to get a hash array going to store the name, price, and quantity of each item sold by the merchant. From there we would multiple the price * quantity to see which item sold for the most profit and return that as an individual item or item array if there was a tie.
